Let’s take a look at how we use
the four basic symbols in a Regular Expression,
starting with the parentheses.
In arithmetic, if we have the equation 1 + 2 x 3,
we follow the order of arithmetic expressions
and solve the multiplication first.
So we get 1 + 6 which equals 7,
but if we add parentheses around 1 + 2,
it holds the highest precedence and so we get 3 x 3,
which equals 9. In regex, parentheses work
in the same way, specifying the highest precedence.
Next we have the Kleene star, named after the man
who helped found the concept of Regular Expressions.
This matches the preceding symbol
repeated zero or more times.
For example, BA* will match
B and BA and BAA and BAAA and so on.
Lastly we have the alternation symbol.
This can be read as a choice,
so the expression A(A|B)
matches both AA and AB.
We usually refer to this as ‘bar’ and read it as ‘or.’
Bar has the lowest precedence of the basic regex symbols,
so A|B* is the same as saying A|(B*),
which means you can either match an A, or any number of Bs.